Now the story of evacuations, they're under way for
beach communities and both Dade and Palm Beach counties
Some of the keys have already
been evacuated.
Oceanographers predict that a massive tidal surge
or tsunami will hit Miami Beach by late afternoon...
...same long lines at every gas station in the costal areas as
people fill their tanks before they head to higher ground.
Due to increased demand, many gas stations
are finding their reserves insufficient.
I'm out.
No more.
No more gas.
What's going on here?
What are you doing up there?
What's taking so long?
It's out of money.
Where is the closest ATM?
This is the third place I've been to.
Home improvement stores are being inundated as locals
are stocking up in preparation of this tsunami.
A more common to this emotion occurrence, this
particular tsunami in the
Atlantic was engendered
by a large portion of the Cumbre Vieja Volcano
in the Canari island, collapsed 8 hours ago
sending water reported
to be 100 meters high
rising for forth of south coast.
Hey.
- What's the hell wrong with you?
- I'm sorry, it's an accident.
Look at my car!
Hey look buddy she said it was an accident
Screw you
Stop it, Dan!
Stop it.
Stop damn!
Stop! Stop it!
- I can't... breathe...
- Are you kidding me?
Two bodies and the wave hasn't even hit yet.
Well evacuations have a way making
people crazy Franck.
According to witnesses there were a
dust out in the parking lot.
When it was over some of the rovers
found these two.
So you have inmate tats,
prison buff.
And we have a coed,
I don't see the connection.
Our female victim is a Virginia Dickens.
Here visiting a student at Miami.
- They were heading inland.
- But she made a stop first.
Yeah the guy was so pissed he wouldn't get out
of the car. Looks like she walk up on something.
So that means that the killer's
real target is the ex-con.
Is it a puncture wound Alexx?
Right to the temple.
Killer left no room for error.
ID does Leon Caldwell.
- All cash, no credit cards.
- It is hard to get credit cards sent to a cell.
What do we have there Alexx?
Oh Sig Sauer, and loaded.
Fresh out of jail and already packing huh?
Look what I've found in his pocket.
Frank...
Take a look at that...
5.7 x 28 millimetres, not from this gun.
That's a monster calibre.
Penetrates up to 48 layers of Kevlar.
Something tells me this guy was
planning something big...
And not alone...
Frank, it turns out the wave is not
the only thing about to hit Miami...
It's still time for you to evacuate.
Just following your lead.
I figured there's a reason you staying put.
Well there is.
We've found these.
5.7 x 28, significant wounding potential.
We think he has a partner and a plan.
You're thinking a heist.
Alright, 1500 banks in the area, hundreds of
armoured cars, hotels, saves, art museums,
- billionaires states.
- Right.
This is the rent-a-car.
That is the shopping cart.
Get Eric out here, please.
Right now. It's the window to the heist.
Yep.
Be alert, seven hours and counting.
We got lucky...
Someone stepped on this one.
And an exemplar.
Lot of hairs on the driver's seat.
White hairs.
Ha, they're closed up,
insurance reasons.
Our killer left behind
15 foot emergency fire ladder,
30 feet of vinyl tubing,
and a mini maglite.
If they needed it before,
they still need it.
Changed towards the closing, couple of mom and
pop hardware stores are probably still open.
I'll got hit a few,
starting with the closest.
Alright, I'm gonna go with you Tripp.
Calleigh you take care of this?
You know it.
- Good night
- Hey.
Are you leaving?
Huh... normally I would stay here and stick
this out especially being new and all.
Oh, no one would fault you for evacuating.
No I have an uncle, a stubborn uncle,
he lives on Count in North Miami beach.
He's refusing to evacuate?
He says he lived through 4 hurricanes this season alone
and not gonna let some other wave chase him out.
I called a bunch of times,
he's not picking up the phone.
Well, maybe that means he's gone already.
I just wanna make sure...
can you clear it with the LT?
Yeah. And just see you know they've closed
Eastbound Broad and Kennedy Crossways
That's why I get the brass pass.
Be careful out there!
Hi Charlie, how's hardware business treating you?
Hey Frank...
You got that wire problem figured out yet?
You bet, just did what you told me to do.
By any chance you sold any of these
provisions to someone in the last hours?
Yours is the third place we've been.
Closing up after this guy.
He went around when I dug out some silicone.
I think he's still over there loading his car.
- Thanks.
- Thank you Charlie.
Excuse me...
Miami Dade PD
Crime Lab.
Really shouldn't you two be working
traffic or something?
Can I see your license?
Steve Riddick?
That's right.
Mind if we have a look inside your car?
You got a warrant?
- Not yet.
- Well, you can search it when you get one.
Well according to the hardware store
owner you purchased these items.
- So?
- So we got a dead guy in a hardware chain
that bought the same things.
Do you mind if I've a look at the
bottom of your shoes?
Orange pulp.
Yeah there's craps all over my mats too.
I like crap,
it just got you arrested.
You got to be kidding me!
Turn around.
Alexx.
Thought you got lost?
Yes, inland traffic... What can you tell
me about the weapon used on the victim?
A quarter inch in diameter,
two inches deep.
And look at this...
- The weapon is cylindrical.
- Right.
The edges of the wound scrape belong side the weapon,
creating a circumferential margin abrasion.
Opened this and brain dead.
So significant force.
You find the weapon,
I can compare the tool mark.
Found something else Horatio,
in his longs.
Normal bronchial tube are pinking the last tick,
his bronchial tubes have significant fibrosis.
So, he had trouble breathing.
Based on the thickness of his neck,
I'm thinking chronic apnea
Shortness of breath that can lead to unconsciousness.
Not a guy you can count on.
Alexx, you've just discovered our motive.
I did?
You did.
Let me know if I was right.
Yes.
A shopping list and an orange,
and you want to charge me
with two murders? Come
on, get out of here.
We're figuring the lady
walked up on you while you were
puncturing your pal Leon's temple.
Nice fantasy.
And why'd I kill Leon?
Because Leon has apnea.
Ap-a-what?
Apnea means you go unconscious
with no notice. Not exactly the type of
guy you want on your crew for a heist.
There's a heist?
Really?
I want to know about this.
Yeah, well, so do we.
Bullets tell us it's a big job.
We figure you got a
little more manpower.
Why don't you whip out some names?
I'm not giving you mooks anything.
And
I've got a news flash.
You're not going to get me for her
or for him.
My lawyer's on his way.
Book him, Frank.
I 've got a news flash for you.
I'm going to get you.
I assumed that you
and Ray Junior would be
heading north by now.
My mom took him inland to a hotel.
What is that?
Um, I was bending down to get a
pot out of the cabinet and I hit my eye.
Yelina.
We're fine.
Yelina... where is he?
Horatio, it's not what you think.
How many times have I heard
a woman in the field say that?
Lieutenant Caine.
Rebecca Nevins.
From the State Attorney's office.
I'll be with you in a second.
To be continued, Yelina.
There is nothing to be continued.
You've arrested Steve Riddick.
Yes, I did, for murder.
Your CSI checked his car.
Couldn't find any of the items
on the hardware store list.
Mr. Riddick was at the store.
I am confident that he
stashed the items somewhere.
And the orange from the
victim and Riddick's shoes?
Pulp's not unique.
This guy is right.
I file this, judge kicks it.
It's a lose/lose.
I don't think we want this
man on the street, do you?
Rearrest him when you can bring
me more compelling evidence.
Frank.
Yeah.
Cooler heads prevailed,
Just beat it, will you?
We're gonna let him walk?
I have no choice.
Put a radio car on him, please.
Do you think the lab
is going to get hit?
We're inland enough
and on the third floor.
I think the worst place to be
right now is near the beach.
Did you get anything for me?
I got to pack up, but I did look at
the hairs from the car and the clothes
of your male victim.
Leon Caldwell?
Roots are spade shaped.
That only means one thing
dog hairs.
Short-haired breed.
I counted 17 different
specimens from the tape lifts.
From a kennel or a vet maybe.
All the hairs are from greyhound.
Greyhound. Dog races.
Popular in Miami.
Thanks, Aaron.
Sounds like the dogs
have been evacuated.
Miami-Dade Police. Are you in charge?
We'd love to meet him too.
Cages for 24 greyhounds.
This explains the dog
hair on our victim.
Manny...
does he seem familiar to you?
Familiar
No.
Hurricane glass.
There's a hole in the top.
It seems almost experimental.
Manny, were you, Riddick and
Leon doing trial runs here?
Where is it supposed to happen?
I want a lawyer.
You know what, my friend?
You're going to get a lawyer.
Turn around.
Find the window, find the
caper, right, Calleigh?
You got it.
Delko.
Eric, is it possible to locate
a building based on the
size of its hurricane window?
Five feet nine inches by 11.
That doesn't sound like a standard size,
which means it would
have to be custom made
and subject to Florida
code requirements.
Golden Beach Bank and Trust.
Dispatch, this is CSI Duquesne.
We're going to need a welfare check
on Golden Beach Bank and Trust.
Manny, how many guys on your crew?
Look, I don't know. I-I
just do my part, man.
A radio car's rolling. There's no ETA.
PD's spread pretty thin.
Eric, meet me at the corner of Ocean
and Golden Beach, please. Thank you.
Calleigh, book him.
Uncle Ron? You in here?
You listened after all.
Excuse me.
Are you Ronald's nephew?
Yes, ma'am. I'm Ryan.
I'm Mona. I live next door.
Ronald talks about you all the time.
Did my uncle evacuate?
He ran out of here,
tried to get me to go with him, but
I think they're all overreacting.
The skies are blue. There's
not a breeze in the air.
This isn't a hurricane, ma'am.
Tidal wave doesn't give
notice, it just hits and
it could take out this entire structure.
I see.
I'll get my things.
My, but that is a low tide.
And it's getting lower.
If I didn't have my contacts in,
I'd swear the ocean was disappearing.
It is.
The bad news is, it's
going to come back.
We gotta get out of here.
No, Mona, we're going
to stay right here.
Right here.
This thing is going to be a monster.
Shots fired at Golden State Bank.
Requesting backup. Every available unit.
Robbery in progress.
Copy that.
They've got a machine gun.
Stay on the ground! Nobody move!
I said nobody move!
I told you, nobody moves!
Hey!
Eric. Check the other shooter.
We're clear!
Hey! Lie down! You,
Sir, get your hands up! Right now!
That's my wife. She's been shot.
She's losing a lot of blood.
Okay.
Give me your necktie.
Okay, ma'am, I'm going
to take care of you.
Here we go. Here's what
I need you to do, sir.
I want you to hold this tight.
- Eric?
- They have P90's.
It's the same ammo as Leon Caldwell.
Is Riddick there?
No.
No money bags, either.
Other teller drawers are open,
but there's no cash anywhere.
I need the bank manager!
I am the bank manager. Scott Riley.
Mr. Riley, somebody is
missing. Do you understand?
Yeah. One of them went out that way.
He took the elevator
once the shooting started.
Okay, he probably took
the money with him.
Oh, my God.
Look at that horizon.
That...
is not the horizon.
Eric, get all these people together.
Let's go, people.
Mister Riley,
Where's the vault?
It's, uh, down that landing.
Only I can open it.
Listen to me. Here's
what I want you to do.
I want you to assemble all these
people and take them to the vault,
No way, man. I'm not leaving my wife.
Listen to me. Take
them to the vault. Go.
Go. I'll take care of her.
Come on, people
Let's go,
Everybody, let's go.
Let's get it together.
Follow me!
Hold my neck. You ready?
Close your eyes.
Who was that?
Is that one of the robbers?
Oh, my God, that's the
outside of this vault.
We're going to drown in here.
Wave receded back.
Yeah, that's the way it looks.
Okay, folks, we're going
to have a look around.
Stay put. Come on, Eric.
Even the hurricane glass blew out.
This guy managed to stay put.
The debris pinned him in here.
Well,
no doubt his partner will not turn up.
That guy's halfway to Cuba by now.
So we get this one...
and the thief...
...gets away.
With the cash.
That's a 5.7.28, Eric.
That seems familiar.
Yeah. Why waste that firepower
in the ceiling, though?
Scare them?
When one of these is discharged,
people hit the deck, don't
they? Imagine a hundred.
Something is going on, Eric.
Miami Beach was hit by a 30-foot
tsunami at 2:57 p.m. today.
Preliminary reports indicate the damage
was confined primarily to the coast.
At present, no deaths have been
directly attributed to the surge,
thanks, in part, to the ten-hour
warning and mandatory evacuations.
Mona, do you think you'll be allright
here, or can I take you somewhere?
Wolfe.
Oh, thank God. Are you okay?
The roof? Do you know
how dangerous that is?
Uncle Ron, when I said higher ground...
Locked? Which door?
Stay there. I'll be right up.
He's on the roof of this building?
Yeah, he locked himself up
there. I'm going to go let him in.
It was nice meeting you.
It's ok baby, I'll be
with you the whole way.
Sorry, sir. Only the injured ride today.
What? Well, where are you taking her?
Any trauma center with room.
We'll call you when she's admitted.
Scott, it's... it's okay.
Okay. I'll be with you right away.
Okay? It's going to be all right.
Bye, baby.
I've got something in my
car to help clean that up.
Oh, it's... it's okay.
Listen, before you go,
we need to, uh, ask you
a few questions about
that robber that got away.
Look, it was mayhem.
After my wife got shot,
I... I focused on her.
Can you give us any description at all?
He was wearing a mask
like the other guys.
Uh, he's a white guy...
medium height, medium build.
Could it be this guy?
His name's Steve Riddick.
Maybe.
Look, uh, can I go now, see my wife?
Yeah, sure, we'll,
uh, we'll be in touch.
Thanks.
Tell you what, Eric.
That guy's a little hinky.
Yeah, you need to get into it.
Hear patrol lost Riddick.
Yes, to a little thing
called a tidal wave.
Scene secure?
Rick, don't you have
somewhere else to be right now?
You and Delko killed
two robbery suspects.
That makes this the place for me to be.
Should we mention the ten
hostages they were holding?
You know I need to take a closer look.
Why don't you take a look in the mirror?
You got something you want to say to me?
As a matter of fact, I do.
I saw what you did to her face.
If by "her", you mean
Yelina, she bumped her face.
You're blaming me for an accident?
I'm going to say this to you once.
If you ever touch her
again, I'm going to kill you.
She loved your brother...
not you.
Do yourself a favor, man.
Move on.
You heard what I said.
Give me your firearm.
I need to investigate.
Fine.
Fair enough.
So, this is your crime scene?
Standard operating procedure.
Good.
We have a lot of work to do.
We're gonna start with you baby-sitting
the body till the M.E. gets here.
He's all yours.
Hey, Eric.
Any luck I.D.ing our dead robber?
Yeah. Took AFIS about two
minutes to pull this guy out.
Armed robbery is his specialty.
Man, Riddick really knows
how to put together a team.
Yeah. How'd you do?
Matched the rounds from
the robbery to two P90's.
The ones from the elevator matched
the one in Mrs. Riley's leg.
He was aiming at his partner,
who got away with the money.
Explains why we didn't find any cash.
Shooting at his own guy?
The robbers turned on each other.
It's not a team I'd want to be on.
Mrs. Riley.
- Hi.
- I just stopped by to see how you're doing.
Surgeons saved my leg.
But you saved my life.
You saved all our lives.
I'm just glad you're okay.
Have you seen my husband?
Um...
No. I-I... I guess I assumed
he's still at the bank.
I knew you'd need Scott to hang
around for statements and all that...
but I'd really like to see him.
Okay, um... you know what?
Let me see what I can do about that.
I'm glad you're okay.
Thanks.
Talk to you later.
Frank, send a uniform over to Scott
Riley's house. Something's not right.
Yeah, I'm here right now.
Something about Riley didn't sit right.
He's nowhere to be found.
Okay, so he's in the wind.
Yeah. Found a, uh, bank employee
folder sitting on the table.
It was opened up to an address
in Uleta, a Farley Wheeler.
Get Eric and go over there, please.
- Thank you.
- Yeah, you got it.
I should kill you!
Hey, wait, wait.
They weren't supposed to hurt anyone.
You didn't think I would recognize you?
I swear, I didn't know
it was gonna be like that.
I know where you live.
Please don't do this.
You almost killed my wife!
You son of a bitch!
Guy's already shot.
Let the cops get him.
He shot my wife!
He robbed my bank.
You know this for sure?
Yeah. I recognized his shoes.
Same ones every day.
Ugly ass shoes, huh, Farley?
He's my swing teller.
Best hours at the bank.
He's stupid.
What are you gonna solve by killing him?
Think of your wife having
to come see you in the pen.
Think.
You're right.
Okay?
Miami P.D.! Drop your weapon.
Don't hurt me!
Oh, God! Don't hurt me.
Drop it now!
You can't match a nine
millimeter with a P90.
Yeah, well, I disagree, so
I guess we've got a problem.
Mm-hmm.
Now, I'm gonna back
out of here with him.
Don't move!
Don't you move!
I see you stick your head out the
door, and I'm gonna blow it off.
Come on!
Scooped up this Wheeler guy out front.
What's his connection?
He's the third robber.
Riddick's on the move.
You know, all this doesn't add up.
If Leon Caldwell and Steve
Riddick needed this hardware
equipment so bad, why didn't
they use it in the bank robbery?
They practice breaking bank windows,
and then didn't do so during the robbery.
Well, here's the weird
thing. Take a look.
Manny's clothing from the dog track.
There's RDX all over them.
Explosives.
But no one used explosives
in the bank robbery.
Not that we know of.
Back to the bank?
The one common denominator.
Let's go.
Third floor's a mortgage broker.
Four and five are more bank offices.
What about the second floor?
Nothing's listed in the lobby.
Let's start there.
The stairs are right over here.
Well, well, well.
Is that what I think it is?
Yes, and the thieves counted on it.
Two vaults, one security system.
The machine guns were used to cover
up the sound of the explosion upstairs.
So the cash they grabbed
downstairs was just a diversion.
This is not about the cash, is it?
It's about the gold.
Center punch.
Used it to punch a hole in the window.
Weakened the frame, and
let the tsunami do the rest.
Some kind of treated nylon.
Heavy-duty and waterproof.
Possibly from a flotation
device of some kind.
So, they let the water do the heavy
lifting, let the gold float out to sea.
And then wait.
Wonder how they expect to find it
all in the middle of the tsunami.
I don't know, but let's start tracking
this flotation material back to its owner.
I had P.D. run a search.
Came back to a Dr. Greismer at Miami.
So you haven't seen Professor Greismer?
We share an office, not much more.
Okay.
Well, when was the
last time you saw him?
Couple days.
I'll try and answer your questions,
but I'm not the tsunami expert.
I'm hurricanes.
I can't believe Greismer's not around.
A tsunami's a once in a lifetime event.
Well, if you don't mind, I'm
gonna have a look for a number.
He's a pack rat, but if
you can find something...
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Professor Greismer,
thank you for coming in.
We're thinking that those lift bags may
have been used in a bank robbery scheme.
I looked for them for
hours before the tsunami.
I couldn't remember where I put them.
That's an awfully big thing to misplace.
We believe the bank robbers
exploited the tidal wave
in order to extract a large amount
of gold from the second story vault.
Actually, "tidal wave" is a misnomer.
It was a volcano that caused that surge.
So your research came in handy,
didn't it?
And you think I helped
with this... this robbery?
Did you?
No. I've been studying ways to
use the energy for useful purposes,
not criminal ones.
Dr. Greismer, how far in advance
would you know a tsunami was coming?
Well, we've known about the fragility
of the Cumbre Vieja volcano for years,
but even the experts couldn't
predict when the collapse would occur.
Actually, the tsunami and the
hurricane're very similar in that regard.
They both cause water to rise,
you know, cause extreme flooding,
and then carry the flooded
water back out to sea.
And Miami has a hurricane
season, which is predictable.
We average one a year.
Of course, this last
season was an anomaly.
We had four.
Maybe the plan was for the hurricane,
but the tsunami just came sooner.
The end result for both is the same.
The end result was all that mattered.
I think we've been talking
to the wrong expert.
Mind if I smoke?
As a matter of fact, I do.
I want you to pay
attention to this, Leslie.
We found your phone records, Professor.
Found dozens of calls
between you and Steve Riddick.
We're acquaintances.
First contact was at your office.
Steve had a brainstorm.
He wanted to commit a
heist during a hurricane,
and so he called an expert,
you.
Now, before long, a
hypothetical situation
became a plan.
By then, he had your home
phone, cell phone, pager.
You basically bought
into his bad boy ways
and decided to help him out.
But Mother Nature threw
Steve a curve ball,
and then he and the gang had
to shift to a hurry-up offense,
didn't they?
When do I get my phone call?
As soon as you tell
me what I need to know.
Where the gold is? I don't think so.
How about, where is Scott Riley?
Who?
Your boyfriend's hostage.
What?
Steve took a...?
Bad boys aren't so cute up close,
are they?
Where's your boyfriend, Leslie?
I don't know.
No calls between Leslie
and Steve Riddick all day.
Let me put it to you another way.
Where is Steve?
He's obsessed with explosives...
Oh, my God.
Leslie, talk to me.
There's a hotel
old Art Deco place
was set to be razed in a few months,
but the surge damaged the foundations,
making the structure hazardous.
They moved up the demolition date, and
since the city's already been evacuated...
The demolition date is today.
Yeah.
What is the name of the hotel?
Leslie, the name of the hotel.
The Sandmore... downtown.
Eric, what do you got?
Blasters say the explosives
are on a sequential time delay.
How long to detonation?
Two minutes, and the building implodes.
He's in there. I know
he's in there, Eric.
Look, the guy said they cleared
the building three hours ago.
Three hours gives Riddick
long enough to stash him.
H! Hope you can hear me.
It's 5 seconds till detonation.
You've gotta get out of there.
Get out now!
Scott!
Scott, easy, buddy.
Easy, buddy, easy.
Oh, man!
Here we go.
Oh, my God!
Lieutenant.
I don't know what to say.
Why don't you check on your wife, okay?
Yeah.
Thank you.
You take care.
Yes, Eric?
You okay?
I think so.
I just got off the phone
with Detective Salas.
The professor isn't so smart.
She still won't give Riddick up.
Well, then it's time to
educate the professor.
I'm sorry, Lieutenant, but
with 3,000 square miles and
20,000 GPS units in this area,
I just don't see how we can help you.
What if I could narrow the field?
Willing to try.
Uh, is the receiver unique in some way?
I don't think this is a receiver.
Sir, uh, 99 percent of GPS units
out there are just receivers.
What if a group of people
were going to converge on a spot,
and they used a GPS to send the signal?
Here's one that isn't receiving.
That's because it's sending, isn't it?
What are those coordinates, please?
Damn.
You got to be kidding me.
They almost made it.
79 gold bars accounted for.
And three business partners.
I guess you kill people when
they lose their value, huh?
Law of the jungle, boss.
That's going to come in handy
where you're going.
Did you find him?
As a matter of fact, I did.
Did you know he was
planning to kill you?
No, he's not like that.
I saw the bodies.
I know there's an explanation.
You don't know him.
Under it all, he's...
He's a very decent guy, right?
Well, a decent guy wouldn't have exploited
this tragedy in the way that he has,
and Florida
has had enough, frankly.
You okay?
Better get to booking.
Ma'am.
Sir.
Heard you got Riddick,
and the gold.
Yes. Paperwork by the end of the week.
I already shopped a judge.
Throw the key away on this guy.
I was worried you were going
to cancel dinner tonight.
That would not be possible.
But?
I've got to push it back an hour.
Drinks with someone?
No.
There's a victim in the hospital,
and I have to go see him and his wife,
so, about an hour.
Okay, 9:00 then, my place.
I'll leave the door unlocked.
See you.
Yes, you will.